
<pre>
  PIP: 8
  Title: pFinance primitives
  Layer: Consensus (hard fork)
  Author: Matt York <matt.york@factom.com>
  Comments-Summary: No comments yet.
  Comments-URI: https://github.com/pegnet/pips/wiki/Comments:PIP-0008
  Status: Active
  Type: Standards Track
  Created: 2019-12-21
  License: BSD-2-Clause
</pre>

==Abstract==

Implementing a formal specification for financial primitives allows PegNet transaction designers to scaffold out
the data structures needed to construct a new kind of pFinance transaction.

==Specification==

See [Go Code](https://github.com/stackdump/pfinance-primitives)

Reference implementation uses 'Pflow' encoded Petri Net to scaffold out the code for a pegnet transaction.

TODO: describe pflow design approach 

TBD: Expose a set of Golang interfaces for integration w/ pegnetd.

==Motivation==

The design of PegNet requires each node to independently process transactions.
One affect of this design is that it is necessary to process many transactions in batches to properly
determine validity.

Each new type of transaction is a link in this recursive chain of execution.

In this situation, one coding challenge is to provide a generic mechanism for declaring new types of transactions,
while at the same time keeping a level of standardization so validations are deterministic.

This PIP specification proposes to adopt a flexible foundation for designing increasingly complex transactions.

==Rationale==

There are many ways to solve this particular problem.

By Choosing to integrate a specification that is formally verifiable allows for the design of more complex
pFinance rules without losing the ability to process the rules in a standard way while avoiding the
need for a Virtual Machine or any specific runtime environment.

Embracing this type of design additionally provides an avenue
to construct tools to analyze an reason about Pegonomics of the system.

==Reference implementation== 

Interactive Simulator https://www.blahchain.com/pflow-editor/

Golang package https://github.com/stackdump/pfinance-primitives
